feat/new product overview pages (#646)
hirosystems/docs: docs/stacks-blockchain-api/index.mdx

---
# The default id is the same as the one defined below. so not needed
title: Stacks Blockchain API Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
custom_edit_url: null
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<p class="p-3 rounded-lg bg-neutral-100 text-neutral-500 dark:bg-neutral-800 dark:text-neutral-400">Query the Stacks blockchain, interact with smart contracts, and broadcast transactions with the Stacks Blockchain API, all via a familiar REST interface.</p>

<div class="mb-10"></div>

> The Stacks Blockchain API expands the intentionally minimal RPC endpoints available in Stacks nodes and indexes, cleans, and enriches on-chain data to put everything you need at your fingertips. Who knew getting reliable blockchain data could be this easy?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Stacks Blockchain API expands the intentionally minimal RPC endpoints available in Stacks nodes and indexes, cleans, and enriches on-chain data to put everything you need at your fingertips. Who knew getting reliable blockchain data could be this easy?

<div class="flex justify-end my-8">
  <a href="/api" class="p-3">
    View API Reference <span class="ml-1">→</span>
  </a>
</div>
```

### Popular Endpoints

<div class="subSections my-8">
  <a href="/api/get-recent-transactions">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Get recent transactions</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Retrieve data about transactions on Stacks.</p>
  </a>
  <a href="/api/call-read-only-function">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Call smart contracts</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Call a read-only public function on a smart contract.</p>
  </a>
</div>

<div class="subSections my-8 w-[50%]">
  <a href="/api/get-account-balances">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Retrieve user information</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Get information about a user, their account balance, transaction history, and more.</p>
  </a>
</div>

> <div class="flex justify-end my-8">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   <a href="/api" class="p-3">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     View API Reference <span class="ml-1">→</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  </a>

> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<div class="subSections my-8">
  <a href="/stacks-blockchain-api/feature-guides/transactions">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Transactions 101</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Learn how transactions work on Stacks.</p>
  </a>
  <a href="/stacks-blockchain-api/feature-guides/use-clarity-values">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Working with clarity values</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Use Clarity values when calling public functions in smart contracts.</p>
  </a>
</div>

<div class="subSections my-8 w-[50%]">
  <a href="/stacks-blockchain-api/how-to-guides/how-to-run-api-node">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Run your own node</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Spin up your own Stacks Blockchain API node.</p>
  </a>
</div>

### Related Tools

**[Hiro Archive](../hiro-archive/index.mdx)**: Bootstrap your own instance of the Stacks Blockchain API with the Hiro Archive and save days of setup time.

**[Token Metadata API](../token-metadata-api/index.mdx)**: Fetch fungible and non-fungible token data on the Stacks blockchain.

**[Stacks Explorer](https://explorer.hiro.so)**: Looking for a front end to verify activity on the Stacks blockchain? Try the Stacks Explorer.

---

> Need help building with the Stacks Blockchain API? Reach out to us on the `#api` channel on Discord under Hiro Developer Tools section. We also host a weekly office hours on Discord every Monday at 11am ET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need help building with the Stacks Blockchain API? Reach out to us on the `#api` channel on Discord under the [Hiro Developer Tools section](https://stacks.chat/). There’s also a [weekly office hours](https://events.stacks.co/event/HD16484710) on Discord every Thursday at 11am ET.
```
